SC data migration to a different disk or server (#5010)
Particular/docs.particular.net: servicecontrol/troubleshooting.md

 1. If having issues remotely connecting to ServiceControl. Verify that firewall settings do not block access to the ServiceControl port specified in the URL.

NOTE: Before changing firewall setting to expose ServiceControl read [Securing ServiceControl](securing-servicecontrol.md).

## Migrate data to a different disk

If the disk containing the ServiceControl database is either to small or is too slow then the files can easily be migrated to another disk.

1. Open the ServiceControl Management Utility.

> 2. Stop the ServiceControl instance type.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Stop the ServiceControl instance.
```

> 3. Open the DB location by clickinb DB Path.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Open the DB location by clicking `DB Path`.
```

> 4. Copy the files to their new destination and ensure ServiceControl has read/write permissions (Moving is not recommended).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Copy the files (moving is not recommended) to their new destination and ensure that ServiceControl has read/write permissions.
```

> 5. Update the database path 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Update the database path by using the ServiceControl Management Utility.
```

6. Start the instance.

> 7. Verify if it is running without issues by inspecting the log files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
7. Verify that the instance is running without issues by inspecting the log files.
```

8. Archive or delete the data from the original location.

## Migrate data to a different server

> Note: Federated transports (MSMQ) are required to also update all endpoint configurations as the server name for the all related ServiceControl queues need to be updated. Brokered transports (RabbitMQ, SQL Transport, Azure Service Bus, AmazonSQS, Azure Storge Queues) do not require any reconfiguration of endpoints.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: Federated transports (MSMQ) will also be required to update all endpoint configurations once the migration is complete as the server name for the all related ServiceControl queues need to be updated. Brokered transports (RabbitMQ, SQL Transport, Azure Service Bus, AmazonSQS, Azure Storge Queues) do not require any reconfiguration of endpoints.
```

> This is very similar to [Migrate data to a different disk](#migrate-data-to-a-different-disk).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is similar to the process to [Migrate data to a different disk](#migrate-data-to-a-different-disk).
```

1. Install the same version of ServiceControl on the new server.
2. Create an instance that has the exact same instance name.
  - The instance name must be identical as this defines the queue name.
  - Disk locations can be different

> 3. Stop the instance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Stop the instance that is being moved.
```

> 4. Open the database location and remove all data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Open the database location of the new instance and remove all data.
```

5. Copy the database files from the previous location to the new location as per [Migrate data to a different disk](#migrate-data-to-a-different-disk).

> 7. Verify if it is running without issues by inspecting the log files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Start the new instance.
7. Verify that the new instance is running without issues by inspecting the log files.
```
